Local Authority Stress Index
L.A.S.I.
team: Gianfranco Cecconi, Gwyn Jones, Mark Simpkins

Goal
To develop a view of the potential stresses that might occur within a local authority and present that at a national view level. So that each authority is not seen in isolation. 
To encourage collaboration and sharing between local authority boundaries in developing interventions to reduce these stress points.
To develop a viewpoint on support and resilience across local authority boundaries.

What we have done.
We have developed an example view of data by local authority that can show how this can be developed.
The actual data and calculation can be easily changed according to the key metric / stress object that you wish to view against. 
* Employment
* Health
* Education
* Housing

Stress Index
Take a number of data points from a set of various sources:
* Census 2011
* Shelter (?)
* Unit Price Index
* Spendnetwork (existing LA spends with Charity / Social Service Providers)
Calculate a stress value for the local authority.

Stress Index
Presented in a way to show your LA values, neighbour values and national values.
LA update data quarterly with projections for the next:
* 6 months
* 12 months
* 18 months
* 24 months
And the latest actuals for the current quarter (where data is available)

What are stress points?
% of population who have not worked in last year / never worked
% of population leaving education without a qualification
% of population being reported as rough sleepers
% of school population that are being excluded from the main education system
Public health issues (teenage pregnancy, overweight population, etc)

about the calculation
We have taken real data and have a system to capture the projection data from the LA’s but currently the calculation is just a placeholder.
In next steps we would review the available metrics and develop a calculation formula with the relevant weightings to produce the stress index score.

Next Steps
Develop the calculation formulas. 
* Research across the stakeholders on what they monitor and what areas cause stress within the authority boundaries.
Development of a practice for each local authority to enter data and to instigate a review process by an external ‘moderator’ to validate the data.

data sources
Census 2011 data from nomisweb.co.uk
